# Energy-Efficient Autonomous Driving with Adaptive Perception and Robust Decision

[2510.25205] Energy-Efficient Autonomous Driving with Adaptive Perception and Robust Decision
  
  - Skip to main content We gratefully acknowledge support from the Simons Foundation, member institutions, and all contributors. Donate &gt; cs &gt; arXiv:2510.25205 Help | Advanced Search All fields Title Author Abstract Comments Journal reference ACM classification MSC classification Report number arXiv identifier DOI ORCID arXiv author ID Help pages Full text Search open search GO open navigation menu ## quick links Login Help Pages About --> # Computer Science > Artificial Intelligence arXiv:2510.25205 (cs) [Submitted on 29 Oct 2025] # Title:Energy-Efficient Autonomous Driving with Adaptive Perception and Robust Decision Authors:Yuyang Xia, Zibo Liang, Liwei Deng, Yan Zhao, Han Su, Kai Zheng View a PDF of the paper titled Energy-Efficient Autonomous Driving with Adaptive Perception and Robust Decision, by Yuyang Xia and 5 other authors View PDF HTML (experimental) Abstract:Autonomous driving is an emerging technology that is expected to bring significant social, economic, and environmental benefits. However, these benefits come with rising energy consumption by computation engines, limiting the driving range of vehicles, especially electric ones. Perception computing is typically the most power-intensive component, as it relies on largescale deep learning models to extract environmental features. Recently, numerous studies have employed model compression techniques, such as sparsification, quantization, and distillation, to reduce computational consumption. However, these methods often result in either a substantial model size or a significant drop in perception accuracy compared to high-computation models. To address these challenges, we propose an energy-efficient autonomous driving framework, called EneAD. In the adaptive perception module, a perception optimization strategy is designed from the perspective of data management and tuning. Firstly, we manage multiple perception models with different computational consumption and adjust the execution framerate dynamically. Then, we define them as knobs and design a transferable tuning method based on Bayesian optimization to identify promising knob values that achieve low computation while maintaining desired accuracy. To adaptively switch the knob values in various traffic scenarios, a lightweight classification model is proposed to distinguish the perception difficulty in different scenarios. In the robust decision module, we propose a decision model based on reinforcement learning and design a regularization term to enhance driving stability in the face of perturbed perception results. Extensive experiments evidence the superiority of our framework in both energy consumption and driving performance. EneAD can reduce perception consumption by 1.9x to 3.5x and thus improve driving range by 3.9% to 8.5% Comments: It was accepted by ICDE2026 Subjects: Artificial Intelligence (cs.AI) Cite as: arXiv:2510.25205 [cs.AI] &nbsp; (or arXiv:2510.25205v1 [cs.AI] for this version) &nbsp; https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2510.25205 Focus to learn more arXiv-issued DOI via DataCite (pending registration) ## Submission history From: Yuyang Xia [view email] [v1] Wed, 29 Oct 2025 06:18:15 UTC (1,487 KB) Full-text links: ## Access Paper: View a PDF of the paper titled Energy-Efficient Autonomous Driving with Adaptive Perception and Robust Decision, by Yuyang Xia and 5 other authorsView PDFHTML (experimental)TeX Source view license Current browse context: cs.AI &lt;&nbsp;prev &nbsp; | &nbsp; next&nbsp;&gt; new | recent | 2025-10 Change to browse by: cs ### References &amp; Citations NASA ADSGoogle Scholar Semantic Scholar export BibTeX citation Loading... ## BibTeX formatted citation &times; loading... Data provided by: ### Bookmark Bibliographic Tools # Bibliographic and Citation Tools Bibliographic Explorer Toggle Bibliographic Explorer (What is the Explorer?) Connected Papers Toggle Connected Papers (What is Connected Papers?) Litmaps Toggle Litmaps (What is Litmaps?) scite.ai Toggle scite Smart Citations (What are Smart Citations?) Code, Data, Media # Code, Data and Media Associated with this Article alphaXiv Toggle alphaXiv (What is alphaXiv?) Links to Code Toggle CatalyzeX Code Finder for Papers (What is CatalyzeX?) DagsHub Toggle DagsHub (What is DagsHub?) GotitPub Toggle Gotit.pub (What is GotitPub?) Huggingface Toggle Hugging Face (What is Huggingface?) Links to Code Toggle Papers with Code (What is Papers with Code?) ScienceCast Toggle ScienceCast (What is ScienceCast?) Demos # Demos Replicate Toggle Replicate (What is Replicate?) Spaces Toggle Hugging Face Spaces (What is Spaces?) Spaces Toggle TXYZ.AI (What is TXYZ.AI?) Related Papers # Recommenders and Search Tools Link to Influence Flower Influence Flower (What are Influence Flowers?) Core recommender toggle CORE Recommender (What is CORE?) Author Venue Institution Topic About arXivLabs # arXivLabs: experimental projects with community collaborators arXivLabs is a framework that allows collaborators to develop and share new arXiv features directly on our website. Both individuals and organizations that work with arXivLabs have embraced and accepted our values of openness, community, excellence, and user data privacy. arXiv is committed to these values and only works with partners that adhere to them. Have an idea for a project that will add value for arXiv's community? Learn more about arXivLabs. Which authors of this paper are endorsers? | Disable MathJax (What is MathJax?) About

                - Help

              

            
            
              

                - contact arXivClick here to contact arXivContact subscribe to arXiv mailingsClick here to subscribe Subscribe Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Assistance arXiv Operational Status